his boldness as a surgeon. Thus he describes plastic operations on the face and mouth, and the removal of polypus from the nose. He tells too of the very dangerous operation for extirpating a goiter (p. 303), and of cutting for stone. He gives an excellent account of what might be thought the modern operation for removal of tonsils. Noteworthy also is his description of dental practice which includes the wiring of loose teeth and an account of a dental mirror. An idea of the surgical instruments in use in his time can be obtained from those recovered from Pompeii (Fig. 15).

If, in Medicine itself, the Roman achieved but few advances, in the organization of medical service, and especially in the department which deals with public health, his position is far more noteworthy. All Latin writers on architecture give much attention to the orientation, position and drainage of buildings. From an early date sanitation and public health drew the attention of statesmen. Considering the dread of the neighborhood of marshes on the part of these practical sanitarians of Ancient Rome, and in view of modern knowledge of the mosquito-borne character of Malaria (pp. 284-5), it entertaining to find the mosquito net ridiculed by the poets Horace, Juvenal and Propertius!

Sanitation was a feature of Roman life. Rome was already provided with _cloacae_ or subterranean sewers in the age of the Tarquins (6th cent. B.C.). The _Cloaca Maxima_ itself, the main drain of Rome, which is still in use, dates back to that period.

The antiquity of hygienic ideas is seen in an interdict, by a law of about 450 B.C., against burials within the city walls and in the instructions issued to the town officials to attend to the cleanliness of the streets and to the distribution of water. Among these ancient laws we may note one attributed to the first king of Rome, which directed the opening of the body in the hope of extracting a living child in the case of a woman dying in pregnancy. It is the origin of the so-called ‘Caesarean section’ on the living mother, the method by which Caesar himself is said to have been brought into the world. At the date of these decrees physicians in Rome were either slaves or in an entirely subordinate position. Their status was improved by Julius Caesar (102-44 B.C.),