I would beg leave to call the attention of my professional readers to the guarded and judicious manner in which pleurisy is treated by our author, beginning with hot fomentations to the side, and gradually advancing to the more active means, namely, purging and venesection. It will be remarked that Hippocrates holds depletion to be the only legitimate mode of removing the pain of the side, and that his commentator, in illustration of his meaning, pointedly condemns the use of narcotics in this case. Now this is a most important consideration, as bearing on a mode of practice which has obtained much favor of late years; I allude, of course, to the treatment by a combination of mercurials and opium. The experience of some thirty years would seem to decide in its favor, but how often have certain methods of treatment in other cases obtained the sanction of professional favor for a much longer period, and yet in the end been abandoned as positively prejudicial? In my younger days I knew old practitioners, of the highest reputation, who administered these medicines in scrofula,--in cancer,--in every case! One cannot think of the changes in professional opinions on the mercurial treatment of syphilis, since the days of John Hunter, without the most painful feeling of distrust in all modes of treatment where one cannot recognize some reasonable bond of connection between the remedy applied and the effects produced, or where long experience and analogy are in favor of them, and where the judgment runs no risk of being imposed upon by fallacious appearances and collateral circumstances. In a word, who does not feel disposed, in the practice of medicine, constantly to recur to the great truth proclaimed by our author in his first Aphorism? “Experience is fallacious, and judgment is difficult.”

I am almost afraid further to put the question to the profession of the present day, whether or not the administration of antimonials in pleuro-pneumonia be an improvement on the ancient practice, or the reverse? Shall we say, then, that experience has decided that this substance (antimony), which, when applied to the cuticle, or to its prolongation, the epithelium of the stomach and bowels, occasions pain, heat, and vascular congestion, produces the very opposite effects on the lungs, when absorbed into the blood and conveyed to them? I dare not venture to answer these questions myself, but suggest them as deserving to be reconsidered, with serious impartiality, by the profession. I trust,