Hermann Boerhaave (1668-1738) was first appointed as a teacher at Leyden in 1701. At once the medical school attained a front rank reputation which rapidly came to surpass even that of Padua. Boerhaave had very few beds at his disposal, but never did man make better use of his opportunities. Besides clinical, chemical, botanical and anatomical instruction he followed such of his patients as died into the post-mortem room and there demonstrated to his students the relation of lesions to symptoms. He is thus the introducer of the method of medical instruction still in vogue in our modern medical schools.

Boerhaave was a man of wide culture. He rescued and published the plates of the priceless _Bible of Nature_ of Swammerdam (p. 121). He brought to Leyden the best anatomist of his age, Bernard Siegfried Albinus (1697-1770). With him Boerhaave edited in superb form the collected works of Vesalius (1725, p. 85 ff.). The edition exhibits remarkable prevision of the scientific needs of the scholarship of our own time. To Albinus, and indirectly to Boerhaave, we owe the most beautiful of all works on muscular anatomy (1747), a book still in current use (Fig. 66). Apart from his clinical ability and acumen Boerhaave was a skilled chemist, botanist, and anatomist.

With all these accomplishments Boerhaave was better able than any man of his time to achieve something like a medical synthesis, to bring all the sciences to the service of the patient. Taking one thing with another, considering his influence as a teacher, his clinical acumen, his power of inspiring younger workers, his wide learning, his balanced vision, his eagerness for new knowledge, his sanity, his humanity, his generosity, and his prophetic power, Boerhaave must be regarded as the greatest physician of modern times. To him the debt of British Medicine, and through it of British well-being, is quite incalculable. Through his pupils he is the real founder of the Edinburgh Medical School, and through it of the best medical teaching in the English-speaking countries of the world. The success of the Edinburgh school, founded while the great Leyden professor was still in his prime, can be ascribed to two causes which