(The parlour of an inn at the head of a valley. Late afternoon, raining. The
INNKEEPER is drying glasses behind a low counter. The SURVEYOR enters with a
wet leather case and sets it down carefully, away from the fire.)

SURVEYOR. Is there a room?

INNKEEPER. There is a room. There is nothing but rooms. (She does not stop
drying.) You will be the one from the office.

SURVEYOR. I am from the office, yes. Did somebody write ahead?

INNKEEPER. Nobody writes ahead. A man came in April with the same sort of case
and the same sort of boots, and he asked for a room in the same voice, and he
told Elis Prytherch that his hayfield was going to be at the bottom of forty
feet of water. So no, nobody wrote. We can read.

SURVEYOR. (after a pause) I am not here about the hayfield.

INNKEEPER. Then what is in the case?

SURVEYOR. Levels. A chain. A book of readings. I am here to find out where the
ground is, that is all. Whether anything is done with the answer is not my
decision and never has been.

INNKEEPER. That is a very tidy way of putting it.

SURVEYOR. It is an accurate way of putting it.

INNKEEPER. (setting down the glass) You will want the room at the back, then.
The front one looks up the valley and I would not want you sleeping badly.

SURVEYOR. I sleep perfectly well. (He unbuckles the case, then stops.) May I
ask you something? The road out of here, the one along the river. How far up
does it go before it fails?

INNKEEPER. It goes to the chapel and then it goes to Pant Glas and then it
stops being a road and starts being an opinion. In February you will not get a
cart past the second bridge.

SURVEYOR. And in summer?

INNKEEPER. In summer you will get anything past anywhere, and that is exactly
how men from offices come to write down what a valley is like. (She comes round
the counter.) Will you eat?

SURVEYOR. If there is something.

INNKEEPER. There is mutton and there is bread and there is the same again
tomorrow. (She pauses.) How many houses?

SURVEYOR. I do not have that number.

INNKEEPER. You have some number.

SURVEYOR. I have a contour and a proposed level and the two of them cross
somewhere above the chapel. I cannot tell you what that means for a house
until I have walked it, and I will not guess in a warm room in front of the
person it concerns. (Quietly.) That is not evasion. It is the only decent
thing I know how to do.

INNKEEPER. (looking at him for the first time) Sit down, then. By the fire, not
away from it, you are steaming.

SURVEYOR. The case must stay dry.

INNKEEPER. The case can sit on the settle where the dog sits and it will
survive the honour. (She fetches a plate.) My grandfather cut peat on the
ground you will be standing on tomorrow. I say that not to make you feel
anything. I say it because you will find a wall up there that is not on any
map, and I would rather you knew whose it was before you wrote it down as a
feature.

SURVEYOR. Whose was it?

INNKEEPER. Ours. It is still ours. (She sets the plate down harder than she
needs to.) Eat.

SURVEYOR. (eating, then) There is a thing I could do. I could take the levels
twice, once along the river and once along the shoulder, and put both in the
book with a note that the valley narrows more than the earlier work suggests.
It changes nothing. It might change what somebody has to explain.

INNKEEPER. That is a very small door you are opening.

SURVEYOR. It is the only one I have the key to.

INNKEEPER. And if they build it in spite of your note?

SURVEYOR. Then it will be built against an accurate description of what was
here, which is more than the last valley was given.

INNKEEPER. (dry) A great comfort. We shall have it read out over the water.

SURVEYOR. (putting down his fork) You are entitled to say that. I have not
asked you to think well of me. I asked for a room and a plate of mutton and I
have been given both, and tomorrow I will walk your grandfather's peat ground
and write down what is true about it, wall and all.

INNKEEPER. (after a moment, going to the window) The rain will stop by seven
and it will be clear tomorrow, and you will be able to see all the way to the
top, which is what you came for. (She draws the curtain.) I will call you at
six.
